README.md, before:

# Docsy Example

[Docsy][] is a [Hugo theme module][] for technical documentation sites, providing easy
site navigation, structure, and more. This **Docsy Example Project** uses the Docsy
theme component as a hugo module and provides a skeleton documentation structure for you to use.
You can clone/copy this project and edit it with your own content, or use it as an example.

In this project, the Docsy theme component is pulled in as a Hugo module, together with other module dependencies:

```console
$ hugo mod graph
hugo: collected modules in 566 ms
hugo: collected modules in 578 ms
github.com/google/docsy-example github.com/google/docsy@v0.7.1
github.com/google/docsy-example github.com/google/docsy/dependencies@v0.7.1
github.com/google/docsy/dependencies@v0.7.1 github.com/twbs/bootstrap@v5.2.3+incompatible
github.com/google/docsy/dependencies@v0.7.1 github.com/FortAwesome/Font-Awesome@v0.0.0-20230327165841-0698449d50f2
```

You can find detailed theme instructions in the [Docsy user guide][].

This Docsy Example Project is hosted on [Netlify][] at [example.docsy.dev][].
You can view deploy logs from the [deploy section of the project's Netlify
dashboard][deploys], or this [alternate dashboard][].

This is not an officially supported Google product. This project is currently maintained.

## Using the Docsy Example Project as a template

A simple way to get started is to use this project as a template, which gives you a site project that is set up and ready to use. To do this:

1. Use the dropdown for switching branches/tags to change to the latest released tag `v0.7.1`

2. Click **Use this template**.

3. Select a name for your new project and click **Create repository from template**.

4. Make your own local working copy of your new repo using git clone, replacing https://github.com/me/example.git with your repo’s web URL:

```bash
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/me/example.git
```

You can now edit your own versions of the site’s source files.

If you want to do SCSS edits and want to publish these, you need to install `PostCSS`

```bash
npm install
```

## Running the website locally

Building and running the site locally requires a recent `extended` version of [Hugo](https://gohugo.io).
You can find out more about how to install Hugo for your environment in our
[Getting started](https://www.docsy.dev/docs/getting-started/#prerequisites-and-installation) guide.

Once you've made your working copy of the site repo, from the repo root folder, run:

```bash
hugo server
```

## Running a container locally

You can run docsy-example inside a [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/)
container, the container runs with a volume bound to the `docsy-example`
folder. This approach doesn't require you to install any dependencies other
than [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) on
Windows and Mac, and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
on Linux.

1. Build the docker image

   ```bash
   docker-compose build
   ```

1. Run the built image

   ```bash
   docker-compose up
   ```

   > NOTE: You can run both commands at once with `docker-compose up --build`.

1. Verify that the service is working.

   Open your web browser and type `http://localhost:1313` in your navigation bar,
   This opens a local instance of the docsy-example homepage. You can now make
   changes to the docsy example and those changes will immediately show up in your
   browser after you save.

### Cleanup

To stop Docker Compose, on your terminal window, press **Ctrl + C**.

To remove the produced images run:

```bash
docker-compose rm
```
For more information see the [Docker Compose documentation][].

## Troubleshooting

As you run the website locally, you may run into the following error:

```console
$ hugo server
WARN 2023/06/27 16:59:06 Module "project" is not compatible with this Hugo version; run "hugo mod graph" for more information.
Start building sites …
hugo v0.101.0-466fa43c16709b4483689930a4f9ac8add5c9f66+extended windows/amd64 BuildDate=2022-06-16T07:09:16Z VendorInfo=gohugoio
Error: Error building site: "C:\Users\foo\path\to\docsy-example\content\en\_index.md:5:1": failed to extract shortcode: template for shortcode "blocks/cover" not found
Built in 27 ms
```

This error occurs if you are running an outdated version of Hugo. As of docsy theme version `v0.7.0`, hugo version `0.110.0` or higher is required.
See this [section](https://www.docsy.dev/docs/get-started/docsy-as-module/installation-prerequisites/#install-hugo) of the user guide for instructions on how to install Hugo.

Or you may be confronted with the following error:

```console
$ hugo server

INFO 2021/01/21 21:07:55 Using config file:
Building sites … INFO 2021/01/21 21:07:55 syncing static files to /
Built in 288 ms
Error: Error building site: TOCSS: failed to transform "scss/main.scss" (text/x-scss): resource "scss/scss/main.scss_9fadf33d895a46083cdd64396b57ef68" not found in file cache
```

This error occurs if you have not installed the extended version of Hugo.
See this [section](https://www.docsy.dev/docs/get-started/docsy-as-module/installation-prerequisites/#install-hugo) of the user guide for instructions on how to install Hugo.

Or you may encounter the following error:

```console
$ hugo server

Error: failed to download modules: binary with name "go" not found
```

This error occurs if you have not installed the `go` programming language on your system.
See this [section](https://www.docsy.dev/docs/get-started/docsy-as-module/installation-prerequisites/#install-go-language) of the user guide for instructions on how to install `go`.


[alternate dashboard]: https://app.netlify.com/sites/goldydocs/deploys
[deploys]: https://app.netlify.com/sites/docsy-example/deploys
[Docsy user guide]: https://docsy.dev/docs
[Docsy]: https://github.com/google/docsy
[example.docsy.dev]: https://example.docsy.dev
[Hugo theme module]: https://gohugo.io/hugo-modules/use-modules/#use-a-module-for-a-theme
[Netlify]: https://netlify.com
[Docker Compose documentation]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/gettingstarted/

Commit message:

GitHub actions: deployment to GitHub Pages, link check
* added workflow files
* README.md:
  - added section on deployment via GitHub pages
  - added section on automated link checking

README.md, after:

# Docsy Example

[Docsy][] is a [Hugo theme module][] for technical documentation sites, providing easy
site navigation, structure, and more. This **Docsy Example Project** uses the Docsy
theme component as a hugo module and provides a skeleton documentation structure for you to use.
You can clone/copy this project and edit it with your own content, or use it as an example.

In this project, the Docsy theme component is pulled in as a Hugo module, together with other module dependencies:

```console
$ hugo mod graph
hugo: collected modules in 566 ms
hugo: collected modules in 578 ms
github.com/google/docsy-example github.com/google/docsy@v0.7.1
github.com/google/docsy-example github.com/google/docsy/dependencies@v0.7.1
github.com/google/docsy/dependencies@v0.7.1 github.com/twbs/bootstrap@v5.2.3+incompatible
github.com/google/docsy/dependencies@v0.7.1 github.com/FortAwesome/Font-Awesome@v0.0.0-20230327165841-0698449d50f2
```

You can find detailed theme instructions in the [Docsy user guide][].

This Docsy Example Project is hosted on [Netlify][] at [example.docsy.dev][].
You can view deploy logs from the [deploy section of the project's Netlify
dashboard][deploys], or this [alternate dashboard][].

This is not an officially supported Google product. This project is currently maintained.

## Using the Docsy Example Project as a template

A simple way to get started is to use this project as a template, which gives you a site project that is set up and ready to use. To do this:

1. Use the dropdown for switching branches/tags to change to the latest released tag `v0.7.1`

2. Click **Use this template**.

3. Select a name for your new project and click **Create repository from template**.

4. Make your own local working copy of your new repo using git clone, replacing https://github.com/me/example.git with your repo’s web URL:

```bash
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/me/example.git
```

You can now edit your own versions of the site’s source files.

If you want to do SCSS edits and want to publish these, you need to install `PostCSS`

```bash
npm install
```

## Running the website locally

Building and running the site locally requires a recent `extended` version of [Hugo](https://gohugo.io).
You can find out more about how to install Hugo for your environment in our
[Getting started](https://www.docsy.dev/docs/getting-started/#prerequisites-and-installation) guide.

Once you've made your working copy of the site repo, from the repo root folder, run:

```bash
hugo server
```

## Deployment on GitHub pages

This repo ships with a [GitHub action] that allows you to deploy your site to [GitHub Pages].
To manually trigger the deployment, select the [deployment workflow] in the `Actions` section of the GitHub web UI and press the button `Run workflow`.
To enable automatic deployment on each push to your repo, edit the corresponding [workflow file](.github/workflows/deploy-github-pages.yml) and uncomment the line specifying the branch used for deployment:

```yml
on:
  workflow_dispatch:   # enables manual run of workflow via GitHub web UI
  push:
    branches:
      - master        # <- Set branch used for deployment here
```

For further details on the deployment setup, please refer to the [deployment] section of the docsy user guide.

## Automated link check

This repo ships with a [GitHub action] that allows you to check the internal links of your page using the fast [hyperlink] link checker.
By default, the link check action will be performed on each push to your repo. To see the results of the last workflow run(s), select the [link check workflow] in the `Actions` section of the GitHUB web UI.
On the same page, you can also disable the workflow if needed. To do so, press the button `…` right beneath the search field that allows you to filter workflow runs.

## Running a container locally

You can run docsy-example inside a [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/)
container, the container runs with a volume bound to the `docsy-example`
folder. This approach doesn't require you to install any dependencies other
than [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) on
Windows and Mac, and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
on Linux.

1. Build the docker image

   ```bash
   docker-compose build
   ```

1. Run the built image

   ```bash
   docker-compose up
   ```

   > NOTE: You can run both commands at once with `docker-compose up --build`.

1. Verify that the service is working.

   Open your web browser and type `http://localhost:1313` in your navigation bar,
   This opens a local instance of the docsy-example homepage. You can now make
   changes to the docsy example and those changes will immediately show up in your
   browser after you save.

### Cleanup

To stop Docker Compose, on your terminal window, press **Ctrl + C**.

To remove the produced images run:

```bash
docker-compose rm
```
For more information see the [Docker Compose documentation][].

## Troubleshooting

As you run the website locally, you may run into the following error:

```console
$ hugo server
WARN 2023/06/27 16:59:06 Module "project" is not compatible with this Hugo version; run "hugo mod graph" for more information.
Start building sites …
hugo v0.101.0-466fa43c16709b4483689930a4f9ac8add5c9f66+extended windows/amd64 BuildDate=2022-06-16T07:09:16Z VendorInfo=gohugoio
Error: Error building site: "C:\Users\foo\path\to\docsy-example\content\en\_index.md:5:1": failed to extract shortcode: template for shortcode "blocks/cover" not found
Built in 27 ms
```

This error occurs if you are running an outdated version of Hugo. As of docsy theme version `v0.7.0`, hugo version `0.110.0` or higher is required.
See this [section](https://www.docsy.dev/docs/get-started/docsy-as-module/installation-prerequisites/#install-hugo) of the user guide for instructions on how to install Hugo.

Or you may be confronted with the following error:

```console
$ hugo server

INFO 2021/01/21 21:07:55 Using config file:
Building sites … INFO 2021/01/21 21:07:55 syncing static files to /
Built in 288 ms
Error: Error building site: TOCSS: failed to transform "scss/main.scss" (text/x-scss): resource "scss/scss/main.scss_9fadf33d895a46083cdd64396b57ef68" not found in file cache
```

This error occurs if you have not installed the extended version of Hugo.
See this [section](https://www.docsy.dev/docs/get-started/docsy-as-module/installation-prerequisites/#install-hugo) of the user guide for instructions on how to install Hugo.

Or you may encounter the following error:

```console
$ hugo server

Error: failed to download modules: binary with name "go" not found
```

This error occurs if the `go` programming language is not available on your system.
Go to the [download area] of the Go website, choose the installer for your system architecture and execute it.

[alternate dashboard]: https://app.netlify.com/sites/goldydocs/deploys
[deploys]: https://app.netlify.com/sites/docsy-example/deploys
[Docsy user guide]: https://docsy.dev/docs
[Docsy]: https://github.com/google/docsy
[example.docsy.dev]: https://example.docsy.dev
[Hugo theme module]: https://gohugo.io/hugo-modules/use-modules/#use-a-module-for-a-theme
[Netlify]: https://netlify.com
[Docker Compose documentation]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/gettingstarted/
[GitHub action]: https://docs.github.com/en/actions
[deployment]: https://docsy.dev/docs/deployment/#deployment-on-github-pages
[deployment workflow]: ../../actions/workflows/deploy-github-pages.yml
[link check workflow]: ../../actions/workflows/link-check.yml
[hyperlink]: https://github.com/untitaker/hyperlink
[download area]: https://go.dev/dl/
